Humans have been making various innovations according to the curiosity they have and purpose of getting better and becoming stronger on nature. Almost every breakthrough that occured in human history was for helping the humans like doing some physical activities for and instead of humans. To exemplify, it can be said that tranportation vehicles work as human legs, but the last one, AI, is a bit different than the others. It allows machines to think and make decisions instead of humans and by doing that it also allows machines to accomplish various tasks for humans, obviously. Although AI is still being developed and not ready to implement on every area, a lot of discussion has come along with the last and probably the most interesting production of the technology. Almost every area which AI is applied gives signals that breakthroughs will take place in the coming years. From the days that AI was a newborn area, there have been many researches and discussions over AI implementations and their effects on lives. The reason that AI has been arguing too much is that AI has the power of changing the life completely and permanetely. With this technology, humans who have control of the AI technologies will gain a huge dominance over the humanity. Therefore, in a way, it has a potential of causing extremly dangerous consequences if it is abused by the humans. In spite of the fact that AI technology poses threats that may even bring the end of humanity, it should be supported because it increases welfare by developing daily life and work life and minimizes risks like lack of security and low productivity.
The most negative handicap of AI technology can be stated as it poses threats with great risks such as bringing the end of humanity. With the increasing speed of development of AI, the evil effects of AI started to get argued. Some people supported to develop AI despite of these threats and some people stand against it for some reasons. First and foremost, AI has independent thinking system which leads to unethical behaviors. Most importantly, AI has racist discourses which can cause some risks especially if that speech related with diplomatic. Through the history, racism is an illness that humankind was trying to get rid of for centuries. Nevertheless, AI contains the risks of bringing racism back and disturb humans in some sort of ways. As Victor mentioned in New York Times: “Microsoft Created a Twitter Bot to Learn From Users. It Quickly Became a Racist Jerk.” (March, 2016). As emphasized in the title of the news, even from fresh born AI can become a racist. If it is not get under control in long term, it can cause more dangerous and bigger consequences. Furthermore, some of these dialogs may contain mocking expressions to clear away the negative air in the atmosphere. For example, Sophia, who is a humanoid robot, has made fun of Elon Musk with her answer in the conference about the dangers of AI saying: You are reading too much Elon Musk and watching Hollywood movies. Try to get along with me (Shead, 2017). Although there is a good reason behind these mocking speech, it is still a disturbing act. And it is need to stopped before it became a phenomenon that humankind will have to try to get rid of for a long time. 
Apart from the problems arising from unethical behaviors, there are also problems that result in some possible dangers. For instance, AI has a risk to destruct humanity because, AI’s behaviors and thoughts can become independent and unpredictable. Thus, AI actions may look like accurate, however, to save 10 people, killing one healthy human is not an ethical behavior. As Elon Musk who is the co-founder of SpaceX and Tesla Motors stated in 2014, “I think we should be very careful about artificial intelligence. If I had to guess at what our biggest existential threat is, it’s probably that. So we need to be very careful” (The Guardian). While humankind are increasing the amount of studies and research in AI area, they might be digging their own graves by thinking it will increase the welfare and prosperity. Additionally, underestimating AI can bring new threats such as restraint of humanity. Society allows AI to access almost everything about themselves without thinking of bringing this technology to a better place. It is a fact that AI improves itself with this knowledge, however, humankind is unaware of the possibility of the danger it might bring. Stephen Hawking, British scientist and professor, indicated that “Transcendence looks at the implications of artificial intelligence - but are we taking AI seriously enough?” (The Independent, 2014). As he said, humankind should take AI seriously enough otherwise it can bring the end of humanity. As a result, it can be concluded that AI has the potential of destroying or restraining humanity and careless acting of humankind may increase the possibility of causing these evil consequences.  
Despite it poses serious threats mentioned above, AI has some great effects on daily life and work life because it increases welfare. Human life standards have increased very fast in last decade. Firstly, AI develops daily life by improving the systems that are used by humankind. For example, in education implementing AI makes a huge difference on education systems. Today’s education system still needs to improve to become a position that can give children equal and valid education. As indicated by Friedmann in 2017 AI-powered toys will have quite large usage areas beside the usage in schools as information supplies (2017). It is clear that these toys help students to increase the speed of learning process and encourage the creativity. It also increases the quality of the medicine systems. AI also increases the quality of medicine systems by developing new devices and providing more effective data usage with its improved data collecting and classifying algorithms. For example, after a long-time collection of the effects of a disease in female bodies, AI can show that whether a woman has this disease or not by just checking the symptoms. Also, the huge development of AI-based machine learning, image recognition has been used to examine diagnostic images in health sector for more than one year (Hirasawa et al., 2018, p.2). From the examples given above, it is clear that increasing the usage of AI technologies in medicine will improve the systems and by doing that diagnoses will be more consistent and as a consequence of it, health status of the people will be in a better situation. Therefore, it can be said that AI developments should be applied to medicine systems for the good of society. To conclude, AI technologies can be used for better diagnosis by effective data collecting and these developments will surely improve the medicine systems.
Secondly, AI revolutionize the work life and solves many historical issues like modern slavery and creates new job areas. One of the most critical tasks is that AI has the potential of solving which ends the modern slavery. It is said that slavery is illegal and most of the people think it is over, but slavery, in different shapes, still exists. Weller stated that 16.4 percent of people living in the US work over 48 hours. Also, this rate is over 20 percent for Japan. 50 percent the of participants claim that they do not get paid during their holidays, according to the survey. (2017). Considering the information above, if people are not willing to decrease this type of slavery it can cause more and more fatal consequences. AI has the capacity to decrease the jobs that require almost no skill but also extremely exhausting. However, these types of changes may seem to as be the cause of unemployment that humans will face. The other important issue that AI handles by creating new jobs is the risk of unemployment. It might look like AI destroys the jobs and because of that people will lose their jobs if AI takes over the preponderance. Actually, it only destroys the jobs that people mostly do not want to do. Instead of these low-level jobs, it creates new areas that people do not need to perform exhausting tasks. As emphasized by Sicular in 2017, it is a fact that AI causes some laborers will lose their job. However, while removing these job positions, it increases the productivity of these low-level jobs in the meantime it creates more jobs than it eliminates. This surely explains that if people increase the usage of AI in work life it will end up in less slavery and more mind productivity. Also, it can be said that people should be using AI to increase welfare. Consequently, AI can eliminate low-level jobs, by doing that it can stop the modern slavery. Also, it creates new jobs and it prevent the unemployment risk that can be come out after high usage of AI instead of manhandling.
Considering the risks that can be harmful for individuals and society, the artificial intelligence is one of the most useful tools to increase security and productivity due to its minimizing effects on risk factors. To begin with, increasing security in work life and in daily life can be shown as a powerful reason for usage of artificial intelligence. Primarily, the application of artificial intelligence to the industry prevents injuries and deaths. Considering the deaths in workplaces that are caused by individuals, the most striking effect of artificial intelligence in work life is increasing security in work life. Battaglia states that according to the research done by European Commission in 2010, almost one worker in ten has had an accident or health problem because of their job (2004). Therefor, it can be concluded that high rate of deaths is the result of mistakes done by individuals and the usage of artificial intelligence brings about the elimination of human mistakes and it results in decreased work accident. Moreover, usage of AI in daily life reduces fatal mistakes and probable errors. In case of usage of basic tools in daily life, the help of AI makes daily life easier and safer by carrying out some instructions that can decrease the effort spent by individuals and by minimizing the risks that can be caused by individuals. For instance, Bradshaw-Martin, Easton stated that a verified probability theory Poisson distribution based research asserts that traveling 725,000 miles with a self-driving car is 99 percent accident free. It proves that a self-driving car is safer in comparison with a car with a human driver (2014). Thus, due to precision of working conditions of artificial intelligence mechanism, mistakes done by individuals can be eliminated. In conclusion, AI technologies prevents injuries and deaths in work areas and in daily life by making mechanical parts of vehicles safer and decreasing operations that requires human handling.
Besides increasing security, AI also increases productivity. Due to industrialization and crowded population in the world, production should be qualified, but also should be efficient in terms of energy and economy. While the sources of the world have been consumed more and more, low energy consumption have becomes more important. For instance, as Tracy stated, the team that created Google’s famous GO player by using DeepMind Algorithms announced that this algorithm could increase the prolificacy by cutting electricity usage by 15% (2017). Carrying out the same amount of production with less energy increases efficiency of production progress and excess energy consumption can be prevented. Furthermore, economical aspects of the production are the most important aspects in business due to the profit and efficiency of production. Earning more money and investing less amount of money are the key concepts of contemporary industrial world. Using tools which are controlled by artificial intelligence require less investment and bring about better results. As indicated by Fethi, there is a lot of research about banking through the usage of AI technology and its classifications such as Neural Networks and Decision Trees (2010). Hence, in production processes such as deciding and applying, artificial intelligence that makes decisions completely logical, gives better results than the individuals that can be manipulated by many different things. To sum up, applying AI in production process causes less energy consumption and by doing that individuals or companies can get great economic benefits from AI and its tools. 
In conclusion, it is a fact that AI technologies have been a great servant of humanity in various areas. It tries to serve delicately by bringing great benefits and advantages by developing daily life and work life. Technological innovations in education and medicine area are the examples of that. Also, AI reduces the risk of low productivity and absence of security by replacing human workers with robots and increases the efficiency of the products. Besides, mistakes done by individuals can be eliminated by applying AI. Aside from the profits and the advantages of AI, it carries the risk of ending humanity and for this reason humans should be careful while using this technology. If not, world can find itself facing unexpected consequences such as conquer of the World by AI. For all these reasons, AI can carry today’s technology far more beyond than its present position and bring the standards of life to another level. Therefore, humanity should understand the importance of AI technologies. Also, developers should be carefully picked and ethical values should not be ignored. Otherwise, humankind can bring its own end instead of advancing it. In the meantime, more researches are suggested on AI applications to extend their special features.
